OK we go to operators and C-Sharp we have five types of operators arithmetic comparison assignment logical
and bitwise.
Let's take a closer look at each of these operators.
We use arithmetic operators in computations where we are working with numbers.
So as you see in the slide we have add subtract multiply divide and remainder of division.
We also have 2 arithmetic operators called increment and decrement which are shortcuts or adding one
or subtracting one from a variable.
So A-plus plus is equivalent to a equals a plus one.
Now with this increment and decrement operator there are two ways you can apply them.
You can use them as a postfix.
So in this example a use one.
And when we apply the postfix increment operator first the value of a is assigned to be so so is going
to be 1 and then 8 is incremented by 1.
So in this example after the second line is execute it is going to be 2 and B is going to be 1.
Now let's take a look at a different way of applying increment operator as a prefix.
So in this example and the second line first is incremented by 1 and then it's assigned to be.
So after the second line both A and B are going to be 2.
So be aware of this difference.
OK next comparison operators.
So we got equal which is indicated by double equal sign not equal greater than greater than or equal
to less than and less than or equal to.
Now what I want you to pay attention to in this list is that the testing for equality is accomplished
by double equal sign.
And that's different from a single equal which is the assignment operator next assignment operators
.
So the most commonly used is the one with a single equal sign.
So here we said eight to one.
Pretty basic.
Now look at the next four types of assignment operators addition assignment subtraction assignment multiplication
assignment and division assignment.
Let's see how they work.
For example addition assignment a plus equal three means add three to eight.
So it's equivalent to writing a equals a plus three and the same rule applies to other for assignment
operators logical operators are used in Boolean expressions which are often used in conditional statements
will get to conditional statements later in this course.
So a real world example is where you have a condition and you want to make sure that condition and another
condition both are true.
Or maybe one of them is true.
So that's where you use a logical operator in C Sharp the logical and is indicated by double ampersand
and the logical or is implemented by double vertical line.
We also have the not operator which is indicated by an exclamation mark.
And finally here we've got the bitwise operators bitwise operators are often used in low level programming
like when working with Windows API or in sockets or encryption explanation of these is beyond the scope
of this course.
But if you're interested let me know and I write a blog post for you.
Now what I want you to take away here is that the bitwise and is indicated by a single ampersand whereas
the logical end which we use in conditional statements is indicated by double ampersand.
Same for bitwise OR.
And logical or.
So remember the difference.
OK in theory let's flip over to Visual Studio and see all these concepts in action